# Workflow

At this point you should already have your forked repo locally and be able to boot up the project and see it in the browser. If not, then please check out the [Setup](./setup.md) section.

So, contributing can be divided into three steps:

- Getting an issue
- Implementing the changes
- Creating PR/Pull request/Merge request(the name depends on tool honestly)

---

## Getting an issue

You can find a list of issues [here](https://github.com/RedBlueKoi/keyworld-vue/issues) on the project repo.

---

## Implementing the changes

After you've been assigned to the issue, you should create a branch for your issue. You can do that in multiple ways:

- From the GitHub interface(recommended)
  - After you've created a branch in the GitHub interface you need to checkout to that branch using `git checkout feature-branch-name` in the terminal
- From the terminal with `git checkout -b feature-branch-name` command
  - Please note here that if you do this, then you also need to push it to origin with `git push --set-upstream origin feature-branch-name` command
- From your git tool like `GitLens` in VSCode

After you've moved to your new branch you can implement the changes related to the ticket/issue/story/etc. you've picked up

---

## Creating PR

After you finished all your changes and tested that everything is working, you can create a PR(Pull Request). You can do that on [this page](https://github.com/RedBlueKoi/keyworld-vue/pulls). You need a `New Pull Request` green button on the top right.

The `base` branch is where you want to merge your changes to.
The `compare` branch is your branch with your changes.

After you've selected branches click on `Create Pull Request` button and that's it. Sometimes you might have a `merge conflict`. That means that your changes are in a conflict with someone elses changes which are already merged to the `main` branch. In this case, you have to resolve the conflict.

To do so, you need to do these simple steps:

- checkout to the `main` branch and pull the most recent version of it by running `git pull` command
- checkout to your branch and run `git merge main` command
- resolve all the conflicted files manually
- after you've resolved everything, run `git add .` and `git commit`
  - please note here that you don't need to specify the message when you resolve the conflict cause it should be autogenerated
- after that just all that you need to do is to push everything with `git push`

This will update your PR and it will be allowed to merge. When the PR is allowed to be merged someone else will take it to review and merge it. When the PR is merged or closed all related branches should be deleted.
